---
ID: 149
post_title: 'Foreign iOS Dev works in a Japanese Company: My story'
author: kandelvijaya
post_date: 2015-10-27 12:36:30
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://kandelvijaya.com/index.php/2015/10/27/foreign-ios-dev-works-in-a-japanese-company-my-story/
published: true
---
<blockquote>Japanese is one of the top 4 hardest language. Japan is one of the safest place to live. Tokyo is one of the expensive, decorated and mordern city to live. Omotesando is by far the best place on Tokyo to have a apartment. </blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Hi, im a iOS engineer, working in Nyle which recently went international and was formerly called Volare. I started in mid-August, 2015 as a part time then became full time on Spetember 1. I stil remeber the interview i had with them; i was wearing half pant and a flip flop. I used to speak broken japanese and you bet i did practise the 自己初回(JikoSyokai - self introduction) and the rest is simply impromptu. Finally i got the offer, to my excitment and then enrolled. I loved the way it happened. This article focuses on the foreigner who is wanting to work in a japanese company for any reason, preferably in tech sector. The reason im writing is i was looking for this kind of blog, months beofre the interview. </p><p>Nyle, is a awesome company. One thing i learnt over the most is; a company is a family. Dont shout! we all know this but i felt it. This single reason singlehndedly justifies why people stay long even after office hour and why japanese people stick to one company for a suprising length of time. Its hard to change family. But whatever i say is with my limited or 6 months of Japanese study. If you think im worng, forgive me or comment below so that we could help somebody looking for career advice. We had a amzing President and team members.</p><p>The president is a charming person, who resembles to one of my friend and maybe of that or not, i like him a lot. Hes cool. He is understandable and he does make you feel good about it. He works right besides us in the open and does communicate with the other members which to my limited knowledge doesnot make sense. To give some perspective of how supportive the company and the culture is: I cant read more than 150 kanjis (I even dont try to: its simply hard), i cant express everything and i cant debate. But listen, i try to speak, thats important.</p><p> And still, eveyone likes to talk to me. For instance, if i have a problem while coding some part, then obviosuly i have to ask.  I turn to either Kurimoto-san or Funakoshi-san and start explaining to them in simple broken japanese and 50% time they will understand and when they dont we start the english part. Im not good at Japanese and they are not good at English. So we communicate with very basic and limited vocabulary. It works when you know what you are doing. When im doing some swift code, the other developer understands my problem if i show him the code or run the app. Its slow, tedious process but better than nothing. Furthermore, when we both have no idea what we are talking about, we just laugh and hit the Google Translate. Again, it works. </p><p>Someone might say, how do you handle the management work; i mean as a japanese employee I need to read documetns and fill in forms and attend meetingsn and weekly report. Sometimes, there a serious thing to discuss and what not. Theres no way i can handle. The company had another forigner, James-san, he helped me a tons. He is a charming person, speaks slowly but clearly and he has good management skills, at least thats what i saw. And there are collegues who can read english and some can speak too. President speaks english, fairly good, theres Matoba-san, he went to US for studies and hence he is another one who helps me a lot. </p><p>I could have managed to be okay even if it wasnt for James and Matoba-san but it might have been not a good experience. I’m really thankful for their presence and the support. James might be a good leader; thats my perspective. Okay, coming back to the development; i learned one thing most, “Persistence over smatness”.</p><p>The impression i got from Kurimoto-san is when you code review, review to find which 1 line can be safely commented away or which one statement might slow down the entire API. Funakoshi-san is a talented Android engineer, the one thing i can learn from him is the way he had managed the Android Codebase. When i jumped in to help him, he gave me links of the architecture and various libraries and APIs. I took a look at the API and then the code and it was exactly matching. I bet most developers, code doesnot resemble the Architecture started with. His did.  Enough of dev talks, let see what i dod daily on the company.</p><p>I study 2 hours and work 6 hours. I watch a dev talks on the lunch break. I get to the office, usually early then 9AM and then have breakfast. We then do the morning briefing on what we are doing and whats the agenda for the day. I happened to repeat Code Review a lot of times running out of ideas early on or simply i was waking up. Im a late person. Thats my day. I feel happy when i do some significant fix, solve something else i feel terrible. </p><p>One thing i love about <a href="http://nyle.co.jp" target="_blank" title="Nyle">Nyle</a>: its culture; supportive and helpful.</p><p>What i learnt besides Dev? I learnt how Japnese people work. It was one of the thing you need to admire, the Japanese products and the work behind it. Remember, 7 years ago, everything was Sony. Remember, Toyota, Nissan, Hona, Mazda , Yamaha. Remember made in japan. It feels great to be a part of that making company. But you might as well ask what i made or the company makes? </p><p>The company makes app to review other apps. Think about it for a minute. Its one of its kind. Better search for the app; <a href="http://app-liv.jp" target="_blank" title="Appliv website">Appliv</a>. </p><p>Lastly, a big thanks for the Nyle company and the members who endure my broken japanese day in and out. </p>