---
ID: 139
post_title: Losing the war with WordPress
author: kandelvijaya
post_date: 2015-10-26 13:35:00
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://kandelvijaya.com/index.php/2015/10/26/losing-the-war-with-wordpress/
published: true
---
<p>I have set up my blog for the 4th time. All the previous posts are gone and its like why dont you import?</p><p>I started to write blogs way back but my footprint is hard to trace. All the posts i did, how many megapixel a eye is?, to Design patterns in Swift1.2 and Paradox of Choice. I have absolutely none. Im a bad wordpress user and i dont know how themes work even. I dont want to know because i have other things to make me busy but sometimes and on times like these how i wish i knew.</p><p>I use open source themes or free ones. I can break things and i had to wrtie posts on TinyMCE on Text mode for 6 months because i broke the GUI somehow; i wouldnt take the balme totally but it happened and updates and plugins wouldnt solve it.</p><p>This time, i am thinking little like a pragmatic person, and hence im using Mac OSX app Blogo which i dont know how it feels because this post is being created on the app. I dont know if it can push to Evernote and to my Amazon EC2 based wordpress. Damn, configuring that EC2 and wordpress took like ages. Its real pain, i wouldnt advise people to do that, especially when im a software engineer and i dont like being dirty in Apache and Virtual Host and those pipantic (After PicoByte) amount of small tools. Ahh, im relieved and hence writing this. The two things i wanted to make clear is; never trust Wordpress and Mysql.</p><p>People might argue with me how there are millions plugins just to solve this but again im not interested in learning 100 tools developed by individual engineer who might have stopped updating and who knows if it crashes and burns next month with the wordpress update. Mysql is decent but still when you save articles from Wordpress then change host. Changing host is easy but shifting old database is not. What if your content was preserved in plain .doc or .pdf file somewhere or maybe google notes.</p><p>I was about to reject the idea of using wordpres out right and start developing my system for me only using <strong>elm&lt;programming langueg&gt;; </strong>never used before. But not having the time has compelled me to use the wordpress again but im being careful this time. My ideal scenario would be this. Day One integrated to Google Keep, Evernote, Google Docs and Wordpress. So i have 5 places backup without having to use anything else besides <strong>Day One.<br /><br /></strong></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><br />Day One? Im a huge fan of Day One. I have been using this little gem for 2 years, journaling my life, experiences and sadness. Its fantastic. Minimal and does Journaling the best. I would love to sometimes share what i leanred about <strong>Swift 2 Generics</strong>, or how the <strong>Japanese Engineering</strong> life has been. But its not possible as of now which i hope they will address someday, i guess. But think, how cool would that be, i write everything at one place, choose which to share to the world and then push a button and done.  The best part i can swap or change the host, change from Wordpress to Joomla or Durpal or Blogger but i can be assured i dont have to fiddle around monkey searching what i did and what someone on the internet tells me to do. I have 5 copies and i can sacrifice some if that makes my work easy.</p><p>In fact even if the internet goes down, i have the articles on 2 places, on my Mac and on my Time Capsule. And i would cosider going to Google headquarters and wanting them to find my notes like i would do for Photos.</p><p>But i wont ever go to Wordpress or Evernote or mysql_dump to do that simple thing.</p><p>Something that might be useful for you guys is this app called <strong>Blogo</strong>. The same app im tying this letters on. It syncs with <strong>Evernote </strong>and <strong>Wordpress</strong> &amp; <strong>Blogger. </strong>At least Evernote is trustworthy then all the hassel of fiddling with mysql.</p><p>The reason im being anti wordpress or anti-mysql is how long it takes to do a trivial thing. Rest assured im a iOS Engineer and had done PHP,HTML or whatever and know MySQL very well but i dont like to get dirty when i know theres a better way. And im generalizing this fact seeing the general public, writers out their writing and to be writers being dirty with wordpress.</p><p>I would love to hear some thoughts on how i can be protective of my articles. Lastly, a big thanks to <strong>Blogo</strong>.</p><blockquote><em>At least there are few people who think integration is important.</em></blockquote>